Once you have your docker‑compose.yml file available,
you can go into the Quickstart Terminal and run the Docker
Compose tool and use some different commands that we're going
to talk through real quick here.
So here are a few of the key commands that we're going to be
using in the upcoming sections in this module.
First off, we need to build our services into images,
and we can do that with the Docker Compose tool,
and we can run the build command.
That's it, really simple.
You'll notice there's not a lot to that,
especially if you look back to what we've done when we did
builds in the past with just the Docker client.
Now once you have your images available,
you can then say docker‑compose up to start those up as running containers.
You can tear them down with the docker‑compose down command.
And then you can do a lot of other things in addition to that.
We can view the logs.
We can list the different containers that are running as our services.
We can stop all of the different services and then
start them back up if we'd like.
And then once we've stopped them,
we can even remove the different containers that are making up our services.
Now we're going to be diving into a lot of these as I move
into some of the examples of using them.
But let's walk through the fundamentals of the key ones here,
the build, the up, and the down.
So, earlier, I talked about the Docker workflow involved,
building your services, starting them up,
and then tearing them down.
So let's focus on the build part here.
So, as shown earlier, we can come in and say docker‑compose build,
and that will automatically build or rebuild all of the
different service images that we need that are all defined
in your docker‑compose.yml file.
Now this is great because if you had a bunch of services,
like I showed earlier, maybe NGINX, Node,
Mongo, Redis, and maybe even others, then,
with one simple command,
you can automatically create all the different images that those
services will need to run on your development machine.
So it's really, really nice that way.
Now you can also build individual services.
Oftentimes, as I'm doing this, I make a tweak maybe to a custom Docker file,
or maybe there's just a new version of an image that you want up on Docker Hub,
and you don't want to rebuild everything.
You just want to rebuild one of those services.
Well, you can do one‑off commands as well,
and this would only build or rebuild the Mongo service of course.
Now once you have everything built, we can then start those services up.
And you saw that's very, very simple to do with our docker‑compose up command.
That will automatically create the containers and then fire them up,
start them up.
That includes linking them together if you're doing linking technology or
if you're using bridge networks or whatever it may be.
So very, very simple.
One simple command and you're up and running.
Now, again,
I want to highlight and compare that to what we've done up to this point
in the course where we've had to do individual docker run commands, and
some of those commands get a little bit long.
This is a lot easier.
So this is a great way to simply take a Docker.yml file, do a
docker‑compose build. Once that's built, we can then say
docker‑compose up, and we're off and running.
Now we can also come in and do a docker‑compose up and supply
some other command‑line arguments here.
Maybe there's a particular service we want to bring up individually,
such as Node in this case, you'll notice over to the right here.
And we don't want any of the other dependencies though. Maybe Node
depends on MongoDB or PostgreSQL or something like that.
And we don't want to recreate those other services, just the Node one.
Well,
we can do that with the docker up. That will make sure that the node is
brought back up, but we don't re‑create the other containers that might be
linked into or bridged into the Node container.
So we've now looked at building the services,
starting up the services, and now let's look at tearing down the services.
So the simple command here is docker‑compose down,
and that automatically will take all the containers
and stop them and then remove them.
Now if you don't want to remove them, you could just do docker‑compose stop.
I showed you that a little bit earlier. But down is really nice in cases
where you're kind of done maybe for the day or something like that, and you
just don't want those containers hanging around.
Maybe you're going to be rebuilding your images anyway.
And so you just like to kind of clear all that out.
Now if you'd also like to not only stop the containers,
remove the containers, but also remove all the images, then you can
add some extra switches here. You can do ‑‑rmi all would remove all
the different images that we have associated with those services.
And then you can even remove any volumes associated with those with
just a very, very simple command you can see.
So, again, you can imagine if you had five containers
running or more, this provides a really,
really easy way to not only stop those and remove them,
but even remove all the different images and all the containers associated
with those instead of having to do that individually,
like we've done up to this point.
Now there are a lot of other commands you can run,
but those are the key ones that you're going to start seeing
as we look at Docker Compose in action. So let's jump on into the next section here, and let's put this to use.